Hello everyone and welcome to this hello world class based view lecture Well we're going to be doing
this lecture is just converting a simple hello world function view into a class based view to get to
the idea of how they relate to each other.
But we're also going to be doing is using the simplest available Django view class.
Later on we'll learn about more complex classes.
But right now keep it basic and essential we're going to be doing interviews that py file is importing
this view object which is going to come from jangled up use that generic You will also have to slightly
change the way we call a class based view in the Urals top pie file of our project.
What we need to do is add in a thought as underscore a view method call off of the class.
And this is an inherited method from the view that we mentioned earlier.
If that doesn't make a whole lot of sense to you right now don't worry we'll all be very clear when
we actually program this all out.
Let's hop over to the editor started Project and get started OK here I am at the Adam text editor and
as you can see here I'm already activated my virtual environment so you can go ahead and do that.
You don't have to do if you already have a one point 1 0 version of Django in your normal environment.
We're going to do is create a new folder scenery folder and I'm going to call this advanced underscore
section doesn't really matter what you call it then I'm going to say CD into that advanced section and
here's what I'm going to call the Django admin.
I will say Django bash admin and let's start a project you call this project whatever you want or call
it something simple like the CBD.
So advanced class space views enter and let that start the project and then will also create a simple
application.
Eventually we're going to be doing this project and later lectures of this section is creating models
that kind of show a student within a class or a school I should say OK.
So we have the advance section let's CD into the CBB and then what we're going to do now is actually
expand this when I should see it.
So here I am in my project folder let's say Django dash admen and let's say Star app and I'm going to
call this basic underscore app.
You can really call it whatever you want.
We're just going to be using one simple application for this project.
OK.
So I have my basic app and I have my advanced CBB project what I'm going to do is come over to settings.
Open that up and make sure that everything's linked as it should be.
Later on we'll also be creating templates in this so will show you different ways of doing that things
so we haven't seen before.
But if I scroll down to install baps I want to add in my basic underscore app there put a common case.
Install any more apps and then let's save that.
Perfect.
And then while we're here we're actually going to add in the templates as well.
Like I mentioned later on we're going to show you a slightly different way of ordering your templates.
Right now we'll keep it the same as we've been doing.
I will say template underscored the R is equal to OS not path.
Join then join to join that bastes victory with templates.
Remember we have to create templates and then coming all the way down to where it says templates that
character I want to pass and here is template underscored.
So nothing new we haven't seen before.
And at the same level as my project in my application I will click Create a new folder and I will call
it templates to match up that directory they just linked to perfect.
And then what I will also do is inside of this templates folder is create a new file and we will call
this index.
H t m l.
This is going to be our home page.
That's the first thing we're going to be showing.
And let's kind of practice using template inheritance.
So create another file and we'll call this based HTL.
So in the base that each T.M. all of these two HTL files and then we're going to do it later on show
you class based views we actually want to talk about but actually show of you we need something to show
the index that it's come up.
And the base that each team out page and we're going to be playing with these files later on in future
elections the section.
So let's just give them a nice title say Let's call this base that it's apparent what we're doing here.
And then inside this body let's say let's create the block or call block we'll call it body block and
then we're going to outside of this call and the block
and remember since I'm going to extend this in other files essentially anything outside of this is also
going to be called.
So something no be can be into call is bootstrap.
And instead of copying and pasting all the files I'm just going to copy and paste the link.
So as always you can just grab this at get bootstrap that.
Version 3 is what I'm using here.
You should be able to use version 4 as well.
No problems.
You know what I'm going to do is also put everything inside a container class I will say div container
obviously on your own web sites.
You'll have to judge whether putting everything in a container like this is a good idea.
But what we're doing kind of makes sense.
So we'll save this.
And then in my index page when I'm going to do is extend from that they studied email but I just made.
So we will say extends and then pass in quotes based that age HTML that file.
And then we're going to call the body block we'll call IPs block first I can spell this right and embody
underscore.
BLOCK And then we will call and the block and finally the actual content we want in this case let's
just put something like hello world in next page home.
Something really obvious that we're at the index or similar home page.
Perfect.
Now let's get to kind of the whole point of this lecture.
The views of Pi file and the Oreilles that my file will start off just by creating a basic function
view and that will translate that into a class based view.
So underneath my basic app on buse up high right now there's no BS in it.
So let's actually create one.
We'll start off with the original function type view.
We've been using which is the Death Index request and then return render passen requests and lushest
passen that index that Steimle page and save that and then we'll come over to our project your PI file
we won't create a PI file for a function folder yet or excuse me our application folder yet.
So here in the project your files up my file.
So BCBG your URLs that PI come down here and let's add in the pattern.
I'll say from the basic app or whatever you happen to call your application import these.
And then here I will call your L English to set it up for the home page.
So for that it's just the domain page itself.
So indexing or regular expression wise just that curious simple dollar sign.
And then we'll call these dot.
And the only function in there is the Index which exactly we want.
Let's save that.
So I'm going to come back down to my terminal and before I run the server I want to make sure I make
my migrations I'll call Python managed up high and say migrate enter should see some stuff coming on
the screen just a little bit.
You can see here that some sequela databases are being created.
That what we want that's working just fine.
And then once that is complete I always like say Python managed up high and we'll call make migrations
on our application which in this case is basic underscore app.
Now we haven't actually added any models or anything so Ill say no changes that I'm a little paranoid
about that so I just do it anyways.
And then like I mention I'm just a little paranoid so then I just say migrate again.
Mixtura thing is right.
So once we see no migrations to apply we should be ready to go.
So let's see if we actually can make this work.
So I will say Python managed up high and I'm going to ask it to run the server and hopefully see that
you are all pop up.
There it is.
Let's copy and paste this and make sure that our home page is working and then bringing in my browser
over here.
It says hello world index page home in a nice container.
Looks good.
Perfect.
So we know our function base view is working.
Now let's kind of turn it into a class based view which is actually pretty simple.
Let me show you what we can do.
I'll come back to my views that PI file.
Ok so back here at the views that PI file have this index view function.
What I'm going to do is replace this with a class based view and I will say from Jingo that used generic
import.
The most basic view class.
You can call whip's is just view so capital-T view and then I'm going to delete all of this and instead
of actually calling the index let each team L5 file what I'm goin to do is just give a very basic HTP
response not something you'll be doing often but I want to show you the most basic class based we can
possibly do.
So here we're going.
Class is object oriented programming.
So if this is confusing to you review those lectures and then I'm going to inherit from view and here
ongoing say DMF get self because it's a method inside this class.
And then I will take in the requests and then what I'm going to do is return and HTP response.
So in order to do that I will say from Jingo that HTP import HTP response.
So when we're dealing with class based views lectures later on this course we actually won't be doing
this we'll be doing something that's actually much simpler.
But I kind of want to show you the are way or the more manual way of doing this.
So I'll say return the response and then we'll say class based views are cool.
Explanation.
So what is actually happening here.
Well when you are old file calls views index we actually need to change that instead of calling views
on index since that function is no longer here.
We need to call the Seabee view class.
Let's do that.
So in here I'm going to delete this line where it says use that index.
And I'm still importing views from my basic app.
What I need to do is add an these dots and then Seabee view which was the name of that class we just
did.
And the other thing you have to do is as underscore the view close parentheses and then let's have another
set of princes to close off this your function.
And this is the main method that you're going to see in the urls that py file.
As we learn about other ways of creating class based views essentially in the year old up high five.
This isn't going to change.
You'll always say use the name of your class based view and then you'll say Dot as you close parentheses.
And this basically tells Django OK grab that class and then show it as a view.
So coming back here is going to grab this.
And then what it's going to call Zill say get grab that request and just return this response class
B's views are cool noticed or we're actually not even returning a template will show how to do that
in the next lecture.
But this is the most basic class based view you can possibly get.
So let's save all our changes here big things to know is that we're using a class space view and we're
calling this buse a class name as View.
That's the main thing I should to get out of this lecture before we hit on the next one will say Python
managed to apply run our server enter.
Let's bring in that browser and I'm going to bring that in and here it is.
Class based IIs are cool.
This is just the most basic HTP response we usually won't be doing something like this but now you know
how to make a very basic class based views.
Now you might be thinking well it's not so great in fact class space views look a little more complicated
to me than that older function based view.
Well that's because we haven't talked about generic template based use.
And those are going to be an awesome tool that is going to save you so much time.
And it's kind of the main reason that people eventually don't use function based views at all and these
class based views for everything.
So if this doesn't convince you yet don't worry.
I think the next lecture will really convince you to switch everything over the class based views which
is essential we're going to be doing for the rest of the course.
And those clone projects.
Okay thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture where we discuss those template views.